Installation instructions:

0. Installation should take place on the same machine that is running
your web server.  It might work better if you have root access and/or
at least be running as the same user and group as the web server.
Example:

  % ssh webserver -l root

OR

  % ssh webserver -l apache

If you don't have access to the webserver account, and/or if it
doesn't even have an account, you can try to do the install as
yourself.  It's still a good idea to be on the webserver machine,
however.  And you'll probably need root access (e.g. <tt>sudo</tt>) to
install the files in the right place and give the correct final
permissions.


1.  To begin, you should have the gui installation tarball
"gui.tar.gz" Make a directory and put the tarball in it.

NOTE: Running from "/tmp" might help avoid permission problems.  This
is what I have to do to install at Stanford.

Example:

  % mkdir /tmp/unpackgui
  % mv gui.tar.gz /tmp/unpackgui

2. Unpack the gui.  Example:

  % cd /tmp/unpackgui
  % gunzip -c gui.tar.gz | tar xvf -

3. You should see one file and two directories.  Example:

  % cd /tmp/unpackgui
  % ls -1F

    README.txt
    gui/
  
4. If you are updating an existing installation, simply copy the new
   files in place of the old.  For paranoia's sake, it's probably good
   to preserve a copy of the existing installation before overwriting
   it with the new update.  For instance, at Stanford we would do:

  % cp -r /var/www/homepage/genesis ~/genesis.old
  % cd /home/mdir/unpackgui
  % cp -r gui/* /var/www/homepage/genesis

  or maybe

  % cp -rf gui/* /var/www/homepage/genesis

  If updating, YOU ARE DONE, DO NOT PROCEED.

  Otherwise, if this is a new install, move on to the next step, below.

5. For a new install, cd to the install directory
"gui/configs/install".  Run INSTALL.sh and follow the directions.
Note that you'll probably need to have full root privilege for
everything to work properly.

  % cd /tmp/unpackgui
  % cd gui/configs/install
  % sudo ./INSTALL.sh

If you're not operating as "root" or if you're not logged in under the
website account, you'll definitely need the "sudo" in the final
command above; also note the instructions at the end of the INSTALL
script, which will tell you how to set the correct permissions for the
installation.

NOTE: The installation will create a website called "genesis" e.g. its
URL will be "http://your-site.com/genesis" and the cgi files will live
in e.g. "http://your-site.com/cgi/genesis".  If for some reason you
cannot use the default install name "genesis", and/or if you want to
make a separate test installation with a different name, you should
use the "-test" option for INSTALL.sh, e.g.

  % cd /tmp/unpackgui
  % cd gui/configs/install
  % sudo ./INSTALL.sh -test genesis_test_install

This (above) would create a web site
    http://your-site.com/cgi/genesis_test_install

...instead of
    http://your-site.com/cgi/genesis

==============================================================================
INSTALL.sh will want to know and/or will try to guess the following
information (examples are from Stanford's installation at
http://www-vlsi.stanford.edu/genesis - feel free to visit there for
reference purposes):

  * what is your web-server URL (e.g. "http://www-vlsi.stanford.edu")
  * where do cgi files live on your server (e.g. "/usr/lib/cgi_bin")
  * what pathname does your server use to access cgi files (e.g. "/cgi-bin")
  * where do "/" level html files live on your server (e.g. "/var/www/homepage")

  * what is the username of the web server (e.g. "www-data")
  * what is the/a group name accessible by the web server (e.g. "www-data")

6. Once installation is complete, you no longer need the contents of
   the unpacking directory, which can safely be deleted.

  % rm /tmp/unpackgui

